<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-us">
	<head>
		<title>OpenPGP Certification Practice Statement of Ian Maxwell, 2022 May 21</title>
		
		<meta charset="UTF-8" />
		<meta name="author" content="Ian Maxwell" />
		<meta name="description" content="This document describes the process by which Ian Maxwell will certify other OpenPGP keys, effective 2022 May 21." />
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
		
		<link rel="canonical" href="https://ian.maxwell.name/pgp/cps-2022-05-21.xhtml" />
		<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style/cps.css" />
	</head>

	<body>
		<nav class="crumbs">
			<a class="crumb" href="/">Home</a>
			<a class="crumb" href="/pgp/">PGP</a>
			Certification Practice Statement (2022-05-21)
		</nav>
		<main>
			<header>
				
			
				<h1 class="pagetitle">OpenPGP Certification Practice Statement</h1>
				
				<table class="metadata">
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<th>Author</th>
							<td><a rel="author" href="https://ian.maxwell.name/">Ian Maxwell</a></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<th>Canonical URL</th>
							<td><a rel="canonical" href="https://ian.maxwell.name/pgp/cps-2022-05-21.xhtml">https://ian.maxwell.name/pgp/cps-2022-05-21.xhtml</a></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<th>Publication date</th>
							<td><time datetime="2022-05-21">2022 May 21</time></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<th>Last updated</th>
							<td><time datetime="2022-05-21">2022 May 21</time></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<th>Current status</th>
							<td class="good">Active</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
				
				<hr />
			</header>

			<p>This document describes the practices that I, Ian Maxwell, will
			follow in issuing digital OpenPGP UID and UAT certifications
			<ul>
				<li>using the master key with ID
					<a type="application/pgp-keys" href="https://keys.openpgp.org/vks/v1/by-fingerprint/75E3D976FB2847D8C71B77307B9F12B9B5EF0DA1">0x7B9F12B9B5EF0DA1</a>,</li>
				<li>on or after the date of publication of this document,</li>
				<li>until it has been superseded or obsoleted,</li>
				<li>whose policy URI packet, if present, contains the
				canonical URL above.</li>
			</ul></p>
			<p>I intend to follow these practices for all certifications
			issued on or after the publication date above. In the event this
			document is superceded or otherwise made obsolete, it will remain in
			place, but with the <strong>Current status</strong> field above updated
			accordingly.</p>

			<p>A digital signature for this document may be found here:
			[<a type="application/pgp-signature" href="./cps-2022-05-21.xhtml.sig">Signature</a>]</p>
			
			<hr />
			
			<section>
				<h2>Tl;dr</h2>
				
				<ul>
					<li>I only issue 0x10 (<q>generic</q>) certificates.</li>
					<li>If I’ve known you for a year or longer by the name in your
						UID, I will certify it as long as I can verify the email
						address belongs to you. You will have to meet me in person
						or by secure video call over an established channel, so
						I know it’s really you.</li>
					<li>If I don’t know you, or don’t know you well,
						then your UID must contain your legal name, you must prove
						this via photo ID, and we will have to meet in person to
						do this. I will still have to verify the email address is
						yours.</li>
					<li>To verify your email address, you’ll have to demonstrate
						the ability to apply your key to mail sent to that address,
						either by signing and returning a specific message sent to it or
						by receiving an encrypted message sent to it.</li>
					<li>If I certify your UID, I will also certify your photo UAT
						as long as it looks like a photo of you.</li>
					<li>If you are not an individual person but an organization or
						group, my critera for certification will be <i>ad hoc</i> but
						require at a minimum that I have a standing relationship with
						you in which I have made use of that key in exchanging
						information with you.</li>
				</ul>
			</section>
			
			<hr />

			<section>
				<h2>Key security</h2>

				<p>So that my certifications can be trusted as genuinely mine,
				these are the measures I take to maintain exclusive control of
				my private master key.</p>

				<p>For regular use, my private master key is stored on a
				<a rel="external" href="https://www.yubico.com/">Yubico</a>-brand
				smart card, from which it cannot be extracted by any practically
				feasible means known to me or the general public. This smart
				card is protected by a strong random PIN which I have memorized
				and have not written down, nor used for any other purpose.</p>

				<p>A backup copy of this key exists, on an AES-encrypted
				filesystem on a bootable USB drive containing a live GNU/Linux
				distribution. After the initial installation and update of this
				software, the drive has been connected only to a powered-down
				air-gapped computer for the purpose of booting into GNU/Linux to create and access my master key. This USB drive is stored in a
				locked box when not in use.</p>

				<p>In the event that either my smart card or my backup USB drive
				is lost, confiscated, or stolen, I will <em>not</em> necessarily
				consider my key compromised, since it is vanishingly unlikely
				that anyone would be able to gain control of my private key from
				either. For this reason I will likewise <em>not</em> necessarily
				revoke my key in this case, but will do so only if I have reason
				to believe it was taken for the specific purpose of gaining control
				over my private keys. As a matter of transparency I will state
				publicly if this ever happens, so that others can draw their
				own conclusions about how much trust to put in my key.</p>
			</section>
			
			<hr />

			<section>
				<h2>Certification semantics</h2>
				
				<p>This section describes what I intend a 0x10
				(<q>generic</q>) certificate to <q>mean</q> when I issue one
				with this key.</p>

				<p>Note that I do not issue 0x11 (<q>persona</q>) or
				0x12 (<q>casual</q>) certificates with this key at
				all, and issue 0x13 (<q>positive</q>) certificates only for my
				own keys. I will not entertain requests to issue certificates
				at any level other than 0x10. I feel that the proliferation of
				certificate types, none of them clearly defined and most of them
				never used, only overcomplicates and sows confusion as to what any
				certificate actually means.</p>
				
				<p>At a minimum, by certifying anything attached to a key, I
				express that to my knowledge none of the keys thereon had been
				compromised at the time that signature was made. In addition
				to this, I express one or more of the following assertions,
				depending on the nature of the certified packet.</p>
				
				<ul>
					<li><i>Personal names:</i>
						By certifying a UID containing the name of a person,
						I express my high confidence based on personal verification
						that the name in the UID is the
						<dfn>real name</dfn> of the keyholder. A <dfn>real name</dfn>,
						for purposes of this certification, may be either a legally
						recognized name or a name by which the person is well-known
						in a social or professional context, but in any case must
						be firmly connected to their public identity as a
						whole.
					</li>
					
					<li><i>Organizational names:</i>
						By certifying a UID containing the name of a
						group or organization, I express that the entity named in
						the UID is known to me, and that with high confidence based
						on personal verification the key is controlled by a person
						or persons acting on behalf of that entity.
					</li>
					
					<li><i>Mailboxes:</i>
						By certifying a UID containing a mailbox address,
						I express my high confidence based on personal verification
						that the mailbox is owned by or delegated
						to the keyholder.
					</li>
					
					<li><i>Images:</i>
						By certifying a UAT containing an image, I express that
						the image is an accurate photorealistic representation
						of the individual who holds the key.
					</li>
					
					<li><i>Nonstandard UIDs and UATs:</i>
						I do not certify nonstandard UATs, but may be convinced
						to certify a UID containing no name or mailbox information,
						provided it contains some falsifiable information about
						the keyholder <em>and</em> I am also able to certify at
						least one other, more typical UID for the same key. If I
						do so, I will include a notation of form
						<code>cert-explanation@ian.maxwell.name=$VALUE</code>, where
						the <code>$VALUE</code> field will contain the URL of a
						document giving the meaning of and justification for
						that certificate.
					</li>
				</ul>

				<p>I disregard the comment field for purposes of verification, and
				my certification of a UID that includes a comment expresses no
				judgment whatsoever of the comment or its veracity.</p>
			</section>

			<hr />

			<section>
				<h2>Certification process</h2>
				
				<p>This section describes the process by which I verify
				and certify UIDs and image UATs.</p>
				
				<section>
					<h3>Keys belonging to individuals</h3>
					
					<p>In order for me to certify anything attached to a key
					belonging to an individual person, all of the following must
					be true.</p>
					<ol type="1">
						<li>
							The key must have at least one signing-capable subkey or one
							encryption-capable subkey (or be signing- or encryption-capable
							itself).
						</li>
						<li>
							The key must have at least one UID with a
							non-empty name field, and at least one UID with a
							mailbox address, or some address capable of receiving and
							sending private messages.
							(These need not be the same UID.)
						</li>
						<li>
							I must either have known the person for a minimum of one
							year by the name in the UID, <em>or</em> they must have
							and be willing to furnish a government-issued photo ID,
							such as a driver’s license, state identification card, or
							passport. I reserve the right to require ID
							at my discretion even for individuals whom I know.
						</li>
						<li>
							The person must be willing to meet with me in person,
							<em>or,</em> for those with whom I have an existing
							relationship and already know their telephone number,
							via video call though the Signal messenger app.
						</li>
					</ol>
					
					<p>To verify and certify the UID(s) for a person’s key, I will take
						the following steps:</p>
					
					<ol type="1">
						<li>
							We will arrange to meet either in person or via
							Signal video call, as appropriate. For people I do not
							know well, this meeting must be in a public place.
						</li>
						<li>
							During our meeting, I will ask the person to show me
							their photo ID, if necessary, and then confirm with me the
							full fingerprint of the key they wish me to certify, as well
							as which UIDs/UATs they wish me to certify.
							If I have not already retrieved their public key, I will
							also ask that they supply me with either the key or a
							link thereto at this time.
						</li>
						<li>
							During or after our meeting (usually after), I will verify
							control of the key and of each mailbox in one of the following
							two ways:
							<ol type="a">
								<li>
									If the key <em>is not</em> encryption-capable, I will send a
									<dfn>challenge</dfn> to that mailbox in the form of a short
									statement containing a randomly generated code, and ask them
									to return that same statement signed with their key.
									Once I receive it and confirm that the signature is valid,
									I will send the certificate for that UID to the same mailbox.
								</li>
								<li>
									If the key <em>is</em> encryption-capable, I will simply
									send the certificate for each UID to the corresponding
									mailbox, encrypted. In this way the person will prove their
									ownership of the mailbox and key by eing able to receive and
									decrypt the certificate to make use of it.
								</li>
							</ol>
						</li>
						<li>
							For image UATs, and for UIDs containing only a name, I
							will send certificates for these alongside those for
							the mailboxes I certify.
						</li>
						<li>
							For nonstandard UIDs, I will work out some variant of
							the proof protocol for mailboxes that logically
							establishes control of the resource named in the UID,
							and carry that out. In this case I will still only deliver
							the certificate to a mailbox specified in a UID attached
							to the key, unless the person has already proven
							control of one such mailbox to my satisfaction, in which
							case I may release it by whatever means we can agree
							upon.
						</li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				
				<section>
					<h3>Keys belonging to organizations</h3>
					
					<p>I have no fixed process for certifying keys belonging to
					groups or organizations. I will certify these on an
					<i>ad hoc</i> basis for organizations with which I have a
					standing relationship in which I have made use of those
					keys.</p>
				</section>
			</section>
			
			<hr />

			<section>
				<h2>Other considerations</h2>
				
				<section>
					<h3>Cryptographic security requirments</h3>
					
					<p>I do not make any requirement on the choice of algorithm
					or cryptographic strength of a key, in order to certify its
					associated UIDs. This is for two reasons:</p>
					<ol type="1">
						<li>Fundamentally I am certifying UIDs, not keys.
							My certification attests only to the truth of
							the information in the UID to which it is issued. It does not,
							and should never be taken to, attest to the security level
							of the key itself, so my opinion of what constitutes adequate
							security is irrelevant.</li>
						<li>In any case, even the weakest asymmetric-key ciphers
							available in any modern PGP implementation are strong
							enough for typical use cases and certainly stronger than
							not using cryptography at all.</li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				
				<section>
					<h3>Recertification</h3>
					
					<p>If you have a new master key and I have previously
					 certified at least one UID under your old one, I will
					 generally be willing to certify any identical UIDs under the
					 new one, by an expedited process. This assumes you are
					 still able to use the old key; if not, we will have to start
					 over again.</p>
					 
					<ol type="1">
						<li>Send me, or point me to, a
						<dfn>key transition statement</dfn>: a message, signed
						with both your old and new keys, stating that the old key
						is superceded by the new one. Include in the message
						a copy of, or a URL for, your new public key.</li>
						<li>I will certify all UIDs on the new key that match those
						I have already certified for the old, and send those
						certifications to you in the same manner I did before.</li>
					</ol>
					
					<p>In the event that your name changes, I will certify new
					UIDs under your new name provided you provide me in person
					with legal documentation of the name change, or if I know you
					well personally and know you to be going by the new name in
					general. In this case I will not require recertification of
					existing mailboxes and can provide you with the certificate
					by whatever means you prefer.</p>
					
					<p>In the event that you have a new email (or other)
					address, no expedited process is available for certifying the
					corresponding UID. This is because I would still require an
					in-person or secure video meetup for you to confirm your
					key has not been compromised, which together with the
					verification of your address makes up the bulk of my
					certification process anyway.</p>
				</section>

				<section>
					<h3>Revocation</h3>

					<p>I will revoke all certifications I have made on a key if I
						am given good reason to believe either
					<ul>
						<li>that the information I attested via the certificate
							is in fact false, or</li>
						<li>that the key has been compromised and is no longer
							safe to use.</li>
					</ul></p>

					<p>I will also revoke any certification by request of the
						keyholder, if they send me a signed message requesting
						that I do so.</p>

					<p>I will release all revocations publicly, both on my
						own web space and on multiple keyservers.</p>
				</section>

				<section>
					<h3>Reciprocity</h3>

					<p>As a matter of courtesy, if you want me to certify a UID for
					your key I will ask that you agree to certify mine as well,
					according to whatever verification process is typical for
					you. This is particularly the case if I do not know you well
					and you are actively soliciting a certificate from me. Usually
					it will be most convenient if we both do our verifications
					during the same meeting.</p>

					<p>If you are for whatever reason unwilling to do this, I
					expect that you will disclose that <em>before</em> we arrange
					to meet, so that I can decide in advance whether it is worth
					my time to go to the trouble of verifying your identity.
					I may be willing to accept some other consideration in lieu of
					reciprocal certification; feel free to make an offer.</p>
				</section>

				<section>
					<h3>Right of refusal</h3>

					<p>Nothing in this document constitutes a promise or contract.
						I reserve the right to refuse certification to anyone, in
						part or in full, with or without a stated reason, unless
						I have actually entered a contract stipulating otherwise;
						and I will not enter any contract in which I agree to
						certify a UID without due verification.</p>
				</section>
			</section>

			<hr />
			
			<section>
				<h2>Document version history</h2>
				
				<p>This section contains a dated list of changes that have
				been made to this document since its original publication.
				These changes are only clarifications, rewordings, or
				corrections to obvious errors, and not intended to change what is
				communicated by the document. If I make a substantial
				change to my policy, I will not modify this document except to
				mark it as superceded with a pointer to its replacement.</p>
				
				<table>
					<thead>
						<th>Date</th>
						<th>Change notes</th>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<th><time datetime="2022-05-21">2022 May 21</time></th>
						<td>Initial publication.</td>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</main>
		
		<footer>
			<hr />
			<details>
				<summary>Other sites</summary>
				<a rel="me" href="https://keybase.io/imaxw">Keybase</a>
				| <a rel="me" href="https://mastodon.sdf.org/@im">Mastodon</a>
			</details>

			<details>
				<summary>Contact</summary>
				<a rel="me" href="mailto:ian@maxwell.name">Email</a>
				| <a rel="me" href="xmpp:im@jabber.sdf.org">XMPP</a>
			</details>
		</footer>
	</body>
</html>

